True Vearn: Measure
for measure, as they say.
Now to make you burn in
the fire of my wrath.
Let's see.
Yes, I think
I've come up with
a very entertaining proposal.
Princess Leona...
I'll spare you... if you
agree to serve by my side.
Leona: What?
You can't be serious...
True Vearn: Oh, but I am.
You may watch as
this Dragon Knight,
the only hope
for your human race,
is viciously torn apart...
Then, I shall keep
you alive even after
the Surface World
has been demolished.
I want you to
witness it all...
True Vearn: Then you'll spend
the rest of your
days serving me.
You shall be an
Underworld songstress,
singing ballads of
my terrifying power
and glorious conquests.
That would be a much
more enjoyable arrangement
than simply slaughtering
you where you stand...
I believe, given time,
we may even come to enjoy
each other's company.
What do you think?
Not a chance. I'll
never do that. Never!
Did you really think I'd
say yes? I'm not stupid.
I know if Dai should fall,
I won't live long either.
So no way.
Leona: Win or lose,
-I'm fighting by his side...
-L-Leona...
Until the very end!
How courageous of you.
I must say, I'm
impressed, Princess.
It's a rare thing indeed
for someone so young
to possess such
an ironclad will.
You already had me
intrigued, but now...
I think I like you even more.
But that will of yours
is of no use to your
precious Dai like this.
He's on the verge of death.
You have no hope
of saving him.
Deny it all you want: this is
not a question of if, but when.
Only, that's not
quite enough for me.
You see, I don't just
want to kill him -
I want him completely
and utterly destroyed.
I want him to see
my greatness,
along with the limitations
of his own strength...
True Vearn:
And to finally see
the true nature of
the humans he so loves.
I want him to feel
the full weight of despair
before his bothersome
light is extinguished.
Now, take a good
look, Princess.
It will be the last
one you ever get.
Watch as I grind your
valiant little Hero to dust!
Dai!
True Vearn: [laughing]
Come now, what's wrong?
Are you going to get
up and strike back...
or are you just going to
writhe around like a worm
until your time runs out?
True Vearn [thought]:
Perhaps my Calamitous End
was too powerful to endure...
Dai [thought]: It's no use.
I can barely even
move like this...
C'mon... Get up...
Hit him back!
Leona [thought]:
No, I have to watch.
It might be brutal...
but I can't just shut
my eyes and turn away
while Dai's suffering.
He needs my help.
I came here to
fight too, didn't I?
There has to be something
I can do... Anything...
Anything to get the
Dark King's attention...
Even if he's distracted
for only a minute,
it might give Dai a chance
to get back on his feet.
True Vearn:
Your time has run out.
Kaiser Phoenix!
W-Well... tell me...
How does the mighty Dark King
feel about getting wounded...
by a princess?
Did you see that,
Dai? I got him.
When Vearn's focused, he can't
even be cut by a Gigastrash,
but when he doesn't give
it his full attention,
his invulnerability
starts to show cracks.
If I was able to hurt him
just now, then you can too.
There's nobody in this world
who's completely invincible...
including the Dark King!
Don't forget that,
no matter what happens!
Leona, I...
Leona: If you still
want to keep me alive,
then go right ahead, Vearn.
But I promise
you'll regret it...
Because if you do,
for the rest of my years,
I'll tell everyone...
How once upon a time,
I managed to wound the
infamous Dark King himself...
How I'm the mightiest woman
in the whole Trio of Worlds!
Dai [thought]: No, no...
Get up. You've gotta
to push through this.
Let's go...
If you don't stand,
right now...
Then Leona will...
[roaring]
Leona!
True Vearn: You
will regret that.
And to twist the knife,
you can no longer
resist or even speak.
Leona, no!
Dai: You... You turned
her into... a jewel?!
This is your
punishment, Princess.
How does it feel?
Leona -
[groan]
Leona: Where am I?
What happened to me?!
I... I'm stuck...
You decided to wound me,
and for such a slight, simply
killing you wouldn't be enough.
No, I won't be satisfied
unless you suffer a fate...
that's even worse than death.
I've used my Magic Power
to transform you into
a type of jewel
known as an Eye.
Now that you're locked
within this gemstone,
there are only three things
you'll be able to do:
You can see, hear, and think.
However, you cannot move.
Your voice cannot be
heard by anyone but me...
True Vearn: No matter what
scenes of atrocity may unfold
before you in these
next few moments...
you cannot avert
your gaze, either...
This is your cage,
my songbird.
Congratulations, Dai.
Despite the fact that
you're heavily wounded,
you still refuse
to accept defeat.
Perhaps you're worthy
of fighting me, after all.
Leona: Dai!
Dai, help!
I'll get you out,
Leona. Hang on!
Let's get started
then, shall we?
Watch from there, Princess...
and behold as I thrash
your intrepid Hero
beyond all hope of victory.
You cannot fight by his side,
nor can you take your own
life to spare yourself
the shame of helplessness...
For a leader of
the Surface World,
I can think of no
greater humiliation.
Wouldn't you agree?
However, I'm more than
willing to change you back
once you agree to pledge
eternal servitude to me.
True Vearn: [evil laughter]
Turn her back - right now!
If you want me to do that,
you'll have to stop
my Magic Power.
Defeat me once and for all,
and she'll be restored.
Although, in your condition,
that seems rather unlikely.
Dai [thought]: Even if he's
right, I have to beat him.
Unless I finish this here and
now, then... Leona will...
But how am I supposed
to get through his
Demonic Guard of
Heaven and Earth?
It doesn't have a weakness!
Dai [thought]: That's it...
If there's no
weakness, then...
Then, maybe...
True Vearn [thought]: I know
that look all too well...
He's thought of something.
Dai [thought]: But
I can't do it alone.
That's the real
reason he took her...
What are you waiting for?
Is something wrong?
It certainly looked as if
you just came up with
some way to fight back.
At any rate, I suppose
it doesn't matter.
Whatever you choose, you'll
still be torn apart by this.
Wait... Calamitous End?!
[chuckling]
Come now. Don't be
so surprised.
The Demonic Guard of Heaven
and Earth isn't necessary
for a Kaiser Phoenix or
Calamitous Wall attack.
The almighty power
of my palm strike
can also be unleashed
at any time I require.
Besides, why should I use my
ultimate skill against someone
who has lost their
will to fight?
I shall tear you to shreds!
Leona: Oh, Dai...
This... This isn't good.
Look at you. You can
barely even stand.
To be powerless
at a time like this...
To be forced to just watch
while he's wearing you down...
[cackling]
That's it!
Very good, Princess.
Now I feel your torment!
True Vearn: To savor
a wine so sweet,
even for a fleeting instant,
makes this all the more fun!
[pained groan]
True Vearn: You should
know that my last attack
was only a simple palm strike.
Make no mistake,
my Calamitous End is a far
greater attack than that.
It requires every ounce
of my supreme might.
Allow me to demonstrate.
Leona: Dai, don't -
True Vearn: Can you
withstand... a second one?
[roaring]
Leona: Please, please move!
Calamitous... End!
Popp: Sorry about that,
Mister Dark King.
Hate to interrupt...
Not you again...
Yeah, us again.
And if you want to beat Dai,
you'll have to
get through us first.
'Cause it's not really over
until you do, now is it?
Everybody, you're all here!
True Vearn: Meddlesome
little brats...
Begone with you!
Watch out, guys.
His third eye's about to -
[cackling]
Say what you will,
but it looks like
you barely even had
the strength to get here,
let alone stand in my way.
Only the ones who are worthy of
the challenge may face me...
Dai, Popp, Avan,
Hym, and Larhart...
The five of you
make the mark.
What's happening here?
Where'd the others go?
It's what I was
trying to tell you.
When the light from
Vearn's third eye
hits anybody who's
too weak to fight him,
it turns them into
those jewels -
He did the same thing to
Leona, before you got here.
You're telling me everyone
else is stuck in these things?
Hyunckel: Terrifying
Magic Power...
Maam: Great...
Crocodine: To
come all this way
and not even get to
swing my axe...
Useless!
Chiu: et me out!
Popp [thought]:
That's right...
Hyunckel was already in
critical condition...
Maam and Brokeena
were still recovering
after the battle with Myst...
And, sad to say it,
but I guess Chiu and Big Guy
just weren't strong enough.
There's a huge
difference between
Big Guy and Chiu, though...
I mean, Chiu I get, but...
is it seriously
all the same to Vearn?
Do we know if they're
still alive in there?
Yeah. They just
can't do anything.
Huh, well... Great. That might
actually work better.
"Work better"?
What are you talking about?
How is this at all better?
Don't you care that
he's got your friends?
You aren't making
a lot of sense.
There's a way to turn
'em back, right?
But Vearn said defeating him
was the only way to do it.
Popp: Well,
he's the Dark King.
We won't be able to
cover our wounded
and take him on at
the same time.
That is true...
Popp: Well, now we
don't have to.
From the looks of it, those
jewels aren't going to break
if they get caught
in the fight.
So what I'm thinking is,
Maam and the Princess
are actually safer.
At least now they're
out of harm's way -
we won't have to
worry about them.
I know it's a
little heartless,
but defeating Vearn is going
to be easier like this...
that's the only
thing that matters.
Oh? Excuse me.
You're always
whining so much,
I assumed you'd be more
sentimental is all.
Hym: Turns out you're
pretty level-headed.
Duh. It depends on
the situation!
Anyway, let's stay focused.
If we lose here, the
Surface World is done for...
Our friends won't be coming
back if we let that happen.
Avan [thought]: Matoriv?
Popp: We still have a shot at
bringing down the Dark King
and rescuing the others...
I'll do anything it takes,
no matter what it costs me.
Avan [thought]: I see.
He's been instructing
Popp while I was gone.
It's no wonder his
magical abilities
have grown so tremendously.
It's just like
the old days...
It feels like the Grand Sorcerer
is right here beside me,
ready to face the forces
of Darkness yet again.
Before you know it,
they've all grown up and
come into their own...
Time moves quickly.
Popp [thought]:
Be cool... Be cool...
Now's the time to fight like
Mentor, so keep it together.
Since Vearn is able
to deflect my Medroa,
there's only got one
thing I've got left.
My mind is sharp.
It's gotten us out
of so many tight spots.
Think it through, Popp.
True Vearn: I suppose the
bigger the audience the better.
You may have to witness
the fall of your Hero,
and the hope of
your Surface World
shall perish
along with him...
But nevertheless, you should
all be very proud...
Because you're about
to witness history...
The dawn of a new era.
True Vearn: Cry, heavens!
True Vearn: Howl, earth!
True Vearn: Here and now...
The age of darkness
has come at last!
Now witness this...
my ultimate power!
That stance, it's...
Look alive, Popp.
Heal Master Dai!
Right!
Okay, let's use that time...
To keep him busy. I like it.
No, wait a second!
Do not charge into his Demonic
Guard of Heaven and Earth!
Wha...
That's the ultimate
power he's talking about.
I've already seen it once.
Trust me, not even
the three of you could...
Please, don't -
Popp, what are you doing?
Let go. We have to stop them!
J-Just sit still!
Avan Strash!
Sunder Claw!
Aura Knuckle!
True Vearn: Demonic Guard
of Heaven and Earth!
[agonized howls]
True Vearn: [laughing]
Was that really the best you
three could do together?
Disappointing.
At least Dai's Gigastrash
managed to wound me.
I barely even felt
your attacks.
Popp [thought]: I saw it.
He repelled the Sunder Claw
with the force of his palm...
took care of the Avan Strash
with his Kaiser Phoenix...
and shattered
the Aura Knuckle
with a strike
from his other palm.
Popp [thought]: Attack,
defense, and magic
all in a single motion.
Talk about ultimate power.
But why, Popp?
Why wouldn't you let me go?
I could've saved them.
How could you
abandon our friends?
That stance Vearn's using
is totally unbeatable
I knew that,
which is why I was going to...
They're alive!
That was way too close.
We have to help
them, before...
Popp [thought]: Why doesn't
he finish them off?
I don't get it.
They're all in shambles...
He could probably wipe them out
with a single extreme spell.
Instead, he's just
standing there.
Is he playing with them?
No, that's not it.
He isn't giving any openings.
Could... Could it be?
Now, then...
What will it be next?
Will you give up and
beg for your puny lives?
Or will you stand,
and face the terrifying fury
of my attack one more time?
Well, b-be that as it may...
Given that choice,
there's no choice!
You got that right.
We'll take our chances.
That's what I was hoping for.
Only... it looks like one of
you won't be able to join us.
Master Avan!
Master, no!
I have to admit it, Avan.
I'm rather grateful that you
were the first opponent to fall.
Fighting power aside,
you mustn't be
underestimated.
Your mind is like no other.
You're unpredictable,
dangerously observant...
and perhaps the smartest man
to have ever walked
the Surface World.
Unfortunately for you...
there's still
someone who's even
smarter than me
standing in our midst.
M-Master!
I'm sorry.
I'm so sorry. I... I...
I understand why
you held Dai back
despite knowing what
would happen to us.
You made the right call, Popp.
Avan: Only a strike
from the Hero
will be able to
defeat the Dark King.
You were following the same
advice I gave Princess Leona.
You set aside your feelings
to ensure the victory.
Avan: Just as Dai, the Hero,
is the only one who can
defeat the Dark King...
there's only one
person who can
help him unlock his
full potential...
and that person is
the one who's been...
fighting by him ever
since the beginning.
And that's you.
I-It's always been you, Popp.
Remember to work together...
and win this thing.
All: Master!
Both: Master Avan!
Narrator: With Avan
and most of the party
turned into Eye Jewels,
Dai and his remaining
forces are battered by
Vearn's unstoppable might.
Before long only Dai
and Popp are left,
and the others are helpless
to do anything but watch.
Victory has never
seemed further away...
until Popp devises a
last-ditch effort to overcome
the Dark King's Demonic
Guard of Heaven and Earth.
See if he'll succeed
on the next episode of
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"On This Bond."